[Music]
hello hello everyone um so glad to be
here with you today uh if you were here
for the last session I do not have jokes
like that so sorry this will not be
funny but hopefully very informative um
so just as a backdrop of this talk you
know demand generation a topic that is
really near and dear to my heart has
really evolved over the last decade or
so and to the point where it somewhat
somewhat tends to operate in a silo that
function has its own kpis and can often
be disconnected with pipeline velocity
in sales and so Revenue marketing and
this talk is going to be about the
evolution in my perspective and what
that Evolution really
requires so my controversial statement
is really that demand generation is
Antiquated and this is really because
marketer purpose has evolved over the
last couple decades where we need to
start leaning in more to Beyond top of
funnel metrics and looking at that in
isolation and really leaning in to
partner with sales to create that
Pipeline and
velocity so you know to back up the
original function of demand generation
was really about the top of funnel
awareness and often vanity metrics that
can Cloud the picture and so that
creates that disconnect with the ability
to understand how to really create
Pipeline and how to create velocity both
but what's equally important is that it
inhibits us often from understanding a
true end to-end Prospect Journey because
we're just so focused at the top of the
funnel and that as a result tends to
lead marketers to look at their tactics
in isolation oh I'm just responsible for
events I'm responsible for digital I'm
responsible for field but like not
putting together those connective
tissues because we're so focused at what
it's achieving and driving at the
top so today I'm going to talk about
three primary ways there's probably 10
or 20 um that Revenue marketing has
evolved from demand generation what that
Evolution really requires so the first
is how we organize and measure actually
looking within our team and our
measurements and our kpis our role what
it can and should be in creating
pipeline velocity to create a true
endtoend integrated Prospect journey and
then the third one is affecting change
in the sales ecosystem really stepping
out of our swim lane or what we consider
to be our swim
Lane so let's take a look at um how to
actually organize what does great
Revenue marketing require well it
requires a lot within the team but even
cross functionally as well so I
recommend doing a gap assessment first
to understand where you have holes to
fill whether it's budget content your
targeting strategy your talent and work
cross functionally across marketing and
within your own team to fill those gaps
first
I lead and influence my team to all be
Revenue marketers regardless of your
core function whether you're in
marketing operations all the way down to
life cycle marketing no matter what you
are a revenue marketer you are here to
help create demand that will ultimately
lead to revenue so regardless of their
core function they are all aligned to
the Strategic pillars what I call the
Strategic pillars of Revenue marketing
but a few examples of how measurement
has really evolved from traditional
demand generation measurement so with
digital it's not necessarily about cost
per lead number of Impressions number of
Clicks in fact to me it's more about
what personas are coming in at the top
of the funnel how does an entry point
change for SMB versus midmarket versus
Enterprise for events it's no longer
just about the booth scans what is our
post show strategy what are we doing
with the sdrs to enable them to carry
that messaging through of what we
presented at show to to continue the
prospects
Journey um field marketing and partner
marketing instead of having separate
messaging at the top of the funnel field
marketing should bring that messaging
throughout as they do acceleration and
expansion events and partner marketing
instead of them creating their own
messaging about us they should co- carry
that message with us um eliminating
random acts of email marketing instead
establishing life cycle progr programs
that thoughtfully take a prospect from
the top of the funnel to bottom of
funnel and even post sales what does
that messaging look like and how do we
carry that through so those are just
different ways of how we look Beyond
just that top of funnel measurement and
how we should really be viewing the
world in terms of what these functions
do so this is an ey chart I'm not going
to read this slide but this is a real
life slide of how I organize my team um
at podium and and so
couple takeaways on this so number one
is there should be connective tissue
within all of this or you're not
creating an integrated Prospect Journey
so to me these are the Strategic pillars
of Revenue marketing the other thing I
want to call out which I think is a gap
in in some organizations because it's
not always that first function that you
want to fill is that campaign strategy
role so this to me is is a critical
function of the revenue marketing team
that allows us to centralize the vision
of what campaign themes we're going to
put out what is the targeting what does
the content bill of materials look like
what is the measurement and kpis look
like there is a strong partnership with
product marketing that is required um to
achieve what is needed out of this
campaign strategy function and then it
basically informs all of your
orchestration pillars so that's how we
eliminate some of the random acts of
marketing and that's how we bring
together that connective tissue because
it's all centralized on that that
campaign strategy that youve put
together with goals and measurement
Etc
so oh
sorry there we go all right so whether
you have an ABM approach or wiet fishing
the real success to me of Revenue
marketing is when you can actually take
action on your tactics um as a result of
your learnings to to actually generate
an increase how you generate Pipeline
and the measurement really go goes
beyond volume again it's not just about
the top of the funnel it's about volume
velocity and conversion and I know
that's no secret a lot of us know that
it is about volume velocity and
conversion but how many marketing orgs
really take the time to address the
latter too right we we know we're on the
hook for number one but velocity and
conversion are ways or are areas that
marketing needs to lean in more and that
to me help support the evolution to
revenue marketing so for example
velocity is not just a sales execution
challenge Revenue marketing through
campaign enablement life cycle programs
and other examples I'm going to talk you
through should and can absolutely get
involved in creating that velocity and
similarly every conversion Point down
the funnel doesn't move a prospect
further and further away from
marketing's responsibility in fact there
are areas that we should and can be
involved in to optimizing those
conversions down funnel and I'll talk
about that
shortly so again creating pipeline
velocity is not specifically owned by
sales okay so how can Revenue marketing
actually be invested and involved in in
helping with that velocity do the
forensics step out of your swim Lane
it's not about our day to-day programs
yes we're executing channels we're
pulling levers we're driving that top of
the funnel volume but there is forens
PHS to be done to understand what is
happening as we approach creating
opportunity and as post opportunity as
well so after the mql we look we look
towards what becomes an opportunity and
let's figure out what we can learn and
then let's look beyond the opportunity
and figure out what we can learn so one
example is in partnership with product
marketing operations sales strategy do a
deep dive on the Lost opportunities are
we losing because we're not creating
enough hook and stickiness at the top of
the funnel do we have a handoff problem
is there messaging inconsistencies
figure out the primary reasons for why
we are losing opportunities solve for
the solve for the majority with that um
one way that will be really beneficial
in solving for that is hearing from your
customers directly so in a prior life I
actually LED uh what I called a voice of
a customer Deep dive using a third party
consult consulting firm it was third
party intentionally because we didn't
want to have any bias when talking to
our customers we wanted them to know
they can and should speak freely and the
idea of this was to look at three
different buckets of
opportunities open opportunities we
currently had in the pipe opportunities
that we lost and opportunities that we
won what we were looking for was to
better understand where we could do
better in all stages of our ecosystem
from marketing to sales
why were we losing why did people choose
us how do we understand active Demand
versus latent demand how do we close the
gap on Long gestation Cycles there was a
lot we knew we wanted to learn and so we
took these three buckets um to conduct
to conduct these interviews and we
learned a lot the thing that surprised
me the most is I knew there were there
was going to be feedback that came back
on our sales execution and changes we
need to make in process and things like
that that but there was a lot that
informed marketing
and now we had to step out of our swim
Lane again and say okay so now we have
these learnings what are we going to do
on top of our day-to-day programs to
create change and change how we're doing
this so that we actually have made use
of these learnings and so what I'm
showing here now are different
categories of the feedback and themes
that came back from this exercise so
there were things about top of funnel
programs there was a lot about you know
sales Pipeline and forecasting SDR
enablement Etc but what I'm showing here
is is the high Lev themes of what came
back to marketing to do of what
marketing needs to really address and
there was a lot of double click within
this but for example what got exposed is
that we weren't doing enough on the
middle and bottom bottom of funnel
content and programs and so people
prospects were starting to get
disconnected with us and so it showed us
we needed to actually invest more again
not just focus on that top of the
funnel um I hope that's not falling so
all right we're okay folks okay
um so uh okay so key takeaways it's it's
really all about of our our operating
Rhythm so demand generation focused at
the top Revenue marketing your operating
Rhythm
spans top of the funnel all the way down
the funnel pre-sales and posts sales
organize your team against the Strategic
pillars make sure that they have the
connective tissues because your focus
your endgame here is to create an
endtoend Prospect Journey not just drive
that volume and brought in your
measurement to align with sales don't
forget about velocity and conversion and
the role that your tactics and your
orchestration plays a part in that step
out of your swim Lane you know the
catcher mitt is not just about sales
marketing especially Revenue marketing
really needs to lean in and learn what
about that catchers M can inform how how
we're going to Market what we can what
we can do
differently it should include customer
listening I do recommend it being third
party again you get an unbiased
understanding of what your prospects and
customers are really learning about you
what's turning them on what's turning
them off and what kills a deal and
what's what gets the deal and really
affect change outside of your day-to-day
programs you know don't operate in
isolation really Broad and cross
functionally across marketing but also
with sales um to be a change agent
across the board
[Music]